お客様のご依頼により、内容参照のみに使用する日本語版エンド・ユー
ザ・ライセンス契約書を提供いたします。但し、日本語版と英語版の解
釈が異なる場合は、英語版が優先して適用されます。

Upon Customer’s request, Mentor Graphics will
provide a Japanese version of the End-User License
Agreement for reference purposes only. However, if
there is a difference in interpretation between the
Japanese and English versions, the English version
shall govern.

End-User License Agreement
The latest version of the End-User License Agreement
is available on-line at:
www.mentor.com/eula

IMPORTANT INFORMATION
USE OF ALL SOFTWARE IS SUBJECT TO LICENSE
RESTRICTIONS. CAREFULLY READ THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT
BEFORE USING THE PRODUCTS. USE OF SOFTWARE INDICATES
CUSTOMER’S COMPLETE AND UNCONDITIONAL ACCEPTANCE OF
THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN THIS
AGREEMENT. ANY ADDITIONAL OR DIFFERENT PURCHASE
ORDER TERMS AND CONDITIONS SHALL NOT APPLY.


END-USER LICENSE AGREEMENT (“Agreement”)

This is a legal agreement concerning the use of
Software (as defined in Section 2) and hardware
(collectively “Products”) between the company
acquiring the Products (“Customer”), and the Mentor
Graphics entity that issued the corresponding
quotation or, if no quotation was issued, the
applicable local Mentor Graphics entity (“Mentor
Graphics”). Except for license agreements related to
the subject matter of this license agreement which
are physically signed by Customer and an authorized
representative of Mentor Graphics, this Agreement
and the applicable quotation contain the parties’
entire understanding relating to the subject matter
and supersede all prior or contemporaneous
agreements. If Customer does not agree to these
terms and conditions, promptly return or, in the
case of Software received electronically, certify
destruction of Software and all accompanying items
within five days after receipt of Software and
receive a full refund of any license fee paid.

1.   ORDERS, FEES AND PAYMENT.
   1.1.   To the extent Customer (or if agreed by
   Mentor Graphics, Customer’s appointed third party
   buying agent) places and Mentor Graphics accepts
   purchase orders pursuant to this Agreement (each
   an “Order”), each Order will constitute a
   contract between Customer and Mentor Graphics,
   which shall be governed solely and exclusively by
   the terms and conditions of this Agreement, any
   applicable addenda and the applicable quotation,
   whether or not those documents are referenced on
   the Order. Any additional or conflicting terms
   and conditions appearing on an Order or presented
   in any electronic portal or automated order
   management system, whether or not required to be
   electronically accepted, will not be effective
   unless agreed in writing and physically signed by
   an authorized representative of Customer and
   Mentor Graphics.

   1.2.   Amounts invoiced will be paid, in the
   currency specified on the applicable invoice.
   Payment for all invoices dated by the end of the
   calendar month shall be paid by the end of the
   following month. Any past due invoices will be
   subject to the imposition of interest charges in
   the amount of one and one-half percent per month
   or the applicable legal rate currently in effect,
   whichever is lower. Prices do not include
   freight, insurance, customs duties, taxes or
   other similar charges, which Mentor Graphics will
   state separately in the applicable invoice.
   Unless timely provided with a valid certificate
   of exemption or other evidence that items are not
   taxable, Mentor Graphics will invoice Customer
   for all applicable taxes including, but not
   limited to, VAT, GST, sales tax, consumption tax
   and service tax. Customer will make all payments
   free and clear of, and without reduction for, any
   withholding or other taxes; any such taxes
   imposed on payments by Customer hereunder will be
   Customer’s sole responsibility. If Customer
   appoints a third party to place purchase orders
   and/or make payments on Customer’s behalf,
   Customer shall be liable for payment under Orders
   placed by such third party in the event of
   default.

   1.3.   All software products are delivered CIP
   destination (Incoterms 2010), all hardware
   products are delivered FCA factory, freight
   prepaid and invoiced to Customer, except Software
   delivered electronically, which shall be deemed
   delivered when made available to Customer for
   download. Mentor Graphics retains a security
   interest in all Products delivered under this
   Agreement, to secure payment of the purchase
   price of such Products, and Customer agrees to
   sign any documents that Mentor Graphics
   determines to be necessary or convenient for use
   in filing or perfecting such security interest.
   Mentor Graphics’ delivery of Software by
   electronic means is subject to Customer’s
   provision of both a primary and an alternate e-
   mail address.

2.   GRANT OF LICENSE. The software installed,
downloaded, or otherwise acquired by Customer under
this Agreement, including any updates,
modifications, revisions, copies, documentation,
setup files and design data (“Software”) are
copyrighted, trade secret and confidential
information of Mentor Graphics or its licensors, who
maintain exclusive title to all Software and retain
all rights not expressly granted by this Agreement.
Except for Software that is embeddable (“Embedded
Software”), which is licensed pursuant to separate
embedded software terms or an embedded software
supplement, Mentor Graphics grants to Customer,
subject to payment of applicable license fees, a
nontransferable, nonexclusive license to use
Software solely: (a) in machine-readable, object-
code form (except as provided in Subsection 4.2);
(b) for Customer’s internal business purposes; (c)
for the term of the license; and (d) on the computer
hardware and at the site authorized by Mentor
Graphics. A site is restricted to a one-half mile
(800 meter) radius. Customer may have Software
temporarily used by an employee for telecommuting
purposes from locations other than a Customer
office, such as the employee’s residence, an airport
or hotel, provided that such employee’s primary
place of employment is the site where the Software
is authorized for use. Mentor Graphics’ standard
policies and programs, which vary depending on
Software, license fees paid or services purchased,
apply to the following: (a) relocation of Software;
(b) use of Software, which may be limited, for
example, to execution of a single session by a
single user on the authorized hardware or for a
restricted period of time (such limitations may be
technically implemented through the use of
authorization codes or similar devices); and (c)
support services provided, including eligibility to
receive telephone support, updates, modifications,
and revisions. For the avoidance of doubt, if
Customer provides any feedback or requests any
change or enhancement to Products, whether in the
course of receiving support or consulting services,
evaluating Products, performing beta testing or
otherwise, any inventions, product improvements,
modifications or developments made by Mentor
Graphics (at Mentor Graphics’ sole discretion) will
be the exclusive property of Mentor Graphics.

3.   BETA CODE.
   3.1.   Portions or all of certain Software may
   contain code for experimental testing and
   evaluation (which may be either alpha or beta,
   collectively “Beta Code”), which may not be used
   without Mentor Graphics’ explicit authorization.
   Upon Mentor Graphics’ authorization, Mentor
   Graphics grants to Customer a temporary,
   nontransferable, nonexclusive license for
   experimental use to test and evaluate the Beta
   Code without charge for a limited period of time
   specified by Mentor Graphics. Mentor Graphics may
   choose, at its sole discretion, not to release
   Beta Code commercially in any form.

   3.2.   If Mentor Graphics authorizes Customer to
   use the Beta Code, Customer agrees to evaluate
   and test the Beta Code under normal conditions as
   directed by Mentor Graphics. Customer will
   contact Mentor Graphics periodically during
   Customer’s use of the Beta Code to discuss any
   malfunctions or suggested improvements. Upon
   completion of Customer’s evaluation and testing,
   Customer will send to Mentor Graphics a written
   evaluation of the Beta Code, including its
   strengths, weaknesses and recommended
   improvements.

   3.3.   Customer agrees to maintain Beta Code in
   confidence and shall restrict access to the Beta
   Code, including the methods and concepts utilized
   therein, solely to those employees and Customer
   location(s) authorized by Mentor Graphics to
   perform beta testing. Customer agrees that any
   written evaluations and all inventions, product
   improvements, modifications or developments that
   Mentor Graphics conceived or made during or
   subsequent to this Agreement, including those
   based partly or wholly on Customer’s feedback,
   will be the exclusive property of Mentor
   Graphics. Mentor Graphics will have exclusive
   rights, title and interest in all such property.
   The provisions of this Subsection 3.3 shall
   survive termination of this Agreement.

4.   RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   4.1.   Customer may copy Software only as
   reasonably necessary to support the authorized
   use. Each copy must include all notices and
   legends embedded in Software and affixed to its
   medium and container as received from Mentor
   Graphics. All copies shall remain the property of
   Mentor Graphics or its licensors. Except for
   Embedded Software that has been embedded in
   executable code form in Customer’s product(s),
   Customer shall maintain a record of the number
   and primary location of all copies of Software,
   including copies merged with other software, and
   shall make those records available to Mentor
   Graphics upon request. Customer shall not make
   Products available in any form to any person
   other than Customer’s employees and on-site
   contractors, excluding Mentor Graphics
   competitors, whose job performance requires
   access and who are under obligations of
   confidentiality. Customer shall take appropriate
   action to protect the confidentiality of Products
   and ensure that any person permitted access does
   not disclose or use Products except as permitted
   by this Agreement. Customer shall give Mentor
   Graphics written notice of any unauthorized
   disclosure or use of the Products as soon as
   Customer becomes aware of such unauthorized
   disclosure or use. Customer acknowledges that
   Software provided hereunder may contain source
   code which is proprietary and its confidentiality
   is of the highest importance and value to Mentor
   Graphics. Customer acknowledges that Mentor
   Graphics may be seriously harmed if such source
   code is disclosed in violation of this Agreement.
   Except as otherwise permitted for purposes of
   interoperability as specified by applicable and
   mandatory local law, Customer shall not reverse-
   assemble, disassemble, reverse-compile, or
   reverse-engineer any Product, or in any way
   derive any source code from Software that is not
   provided to Customer in source code form. Log
   files, data files, rule files and script files
   generated by or for the Software (collectively
   “Files”), including without limitation files
   containing Standard Verification Rule Format
   (“SVRF”) and Tcl Verification Format (“TVF”)
   which are Mentor Graphics’ trade secret and
   proprietary syntaxes for expressing process
   rules, constitute or include confidential
   information of Mentor Graphics. Customer may
   share Files with third parties, excluding Mentor
   Graphics competitors, provided that the
   confidentiality of such Files is protected by
   written agreement at least as well as Customer
   protects other information of a similar nature or
   importance, but in any case with at least
   reasonable care. Customer may use Files
   containing SVRF or TVF only with Mentor Graphics
   products. Under no circumstances shall Customer
   use Products or Files or allow their use for the
   purpose of developing, enhancing or marketing any
   product that is in any way competitive with
   Products, or disclose to any third party the
   results of, or information pertaining to, any
   benchmark.

   4.2.   If any Software or portions thereof are
   provided in source code form, Customer will use
   the source code only to correct software errors
   and enhance or modify the Software for the
   authorized use, or as permitted for Embedded
   Software under separate embedded software terms
   or an embedded software supplement. Customer
   shall not disclose or permit disclosure of source
   code, in whole or in part, including any of its
   methods or concepts, to anyone except Customer’s
   employees or on-site contractors, excluding
   Mentor Graphics competitors, with a need to know.
   Customer shall not copy or compile source code in
   any manner except to support this authorized use.

   4.3.   Customer agrees that it will not subject
   any Product to any open source software (“OSS”)
   license that conflicts with this Agreement or
   that does not otherwise apply to such Product.

   4.4.   Customer may not assign this Agreement or
   the rights and duties under it, or relocate,
   sublicense, or otherwise transfer the Products,
   whether by operation of law or otherwise
   (“Attempted Transfer”), without Mentor Graphics’
   prior written consent and payment of Mentor
   Graphics’ then-current applicable relocation
   and/or transfer fees. Any Attempted Transfer
   without Mentor Graphics’ prior written consent
   shall be a material breach of this Agreement and
   may, at Mentor Graphics’ option, result in the
   immediate termination of the Agreement and/or the
   licenses granted under this Agreement. The terms
   of this Agreement, including without limitation
   the licensing and assignment provisions, shall be
   binding upon Customer’s permitted successors in
   interest and assigns.

   4.5.   The provisions of this Section 4 shall
   survive the termination of this Agreement.

5.   SUPPORT SERVICES. To the extent Customer
purchases support services, Mentor Graphics will
provide Customer with updates and technical support
for the Products, at the Customer site(s) for which
support is purchased, in accordance with Mentor
Graphics’ then current End-User Support Terms for
Japan located at
http://supportnet.mentor.com/supportterms-japanese.

6.   OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE. Products may contain OSS
or code distributed under a proprietary third party
license agreement, to which additional rights or
obligations (“Third Party Terms”) may apply. Please
see the applicable Product documentation (including
license files, header files, read-me files or source
code) for details. In the event of conflict between
the terms of this Agreement (including any addenda)
and the Third Party Terms, the Third Party Terms
will control solely with respect to the OSS or third
party code. The provisions of this Section 6 shall
survive the termination of this Agreement.

7.   LIMITED WARRANTY.
   7.1.   Mentor Graphics warrants that during the
   warranty period its standard, generally supported
   Products, when properly installed, will
   substantially conform to the functional
   specifications set forth in the applicable user
   manual. Mentor Graphics does not warrant that
   Products will meet Customer’s requirements or
   that operation of Products will be uninterrupted
   or error free. The warranty period is 90 days
   starting on the 15th day after delivery or upon
   installation, whichever first occurs. Customer
   must notify Mentor Graphics in writing of any
   nonconformity within the warranty period. For the
   avoidance of doubt, this warranty applies only to
   the initial shipment of Software under an Order
   and does not renew or reset, for example, with
   the delivery of (a) Software updates or (b)
   authorization codes or alternate Software under a
   transaction involving Software re-mix. This
   warranty shall not be valid if Products have been
   subject to misuse, unauthorized modification,
   improper installation or Customer is not in
   compliance with this Agreement. MENTOR GRAPHICS’
   ENTIRE LIABILITY AND CUSTOMER’S EXCLUSIVE REMEDY
   SHALL BE, AT MENTOR GRAPHICS’ OPTION, EITHER (A)
   REFUND OF THE PRICE PAID UPON RETURN OF THE
   PRODUCTS TO MENTOR GRAPHICS OR (B) MODIFICATION
   OR REPLACEMENT OF THE PRODUCTS THAT DO NOT MEET
   THIS LIMITED WARRANTY. MENTOR GRAPHICS MAKES NO
   WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO: (A) SERVICES; (B)
   PRODUCTS PROVIDED AT NO CHARGE; OR (C) BETA CODE;
   ALL OF WHICH ARE PROVIDED “AS IS.”

   7.2.   THE WARRANTIES SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION 7
   ARE EXCLUSIVE. NEITHER MENTOR GRAPHICS NOR ITS
   LICENSORS MAKE ANY OTHER WARRANTIES EXPRESS,
   IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, WITH RESPECT TO PRODUCTS
   PROVIDED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT. MENTOR GRAPHICS
   AND ITS LICENSORS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ALL
   IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
   FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT OF
   INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.

8.   LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. TO THE EXTENT
PERMITTED UNDER APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL
MENTOR GRAPHICS OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR
INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING LOST PROFITS OR SAVINGS) WHETHER
BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER LEGAL THEORY,
EVEN IF MENTOR GRAPHICS OR ITS LICENSORS HAVE BEEN
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. IN NO
EVENT SHALL MENTOR GRAPHICS’ OR ITS LICENSORS’
LIABILITY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT EXCEED THE AMOUNT
RECEIVED FROM CUSTOMER FOR THE HARDWARE, SOFTWARE
LICENSE OR SERVICE GIVING RISE TO THE CLAIM. IN THE
CASE WHERE NO AMOUNT WAS PAID, MENTOR GRAPHICS AND
ITS LICENSORS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ANY
DAMAGES WHATSOEVER. THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION 8
SHALL SURVIVE THE TERMINATION OF THIS AGREEMENT.

9.   THIRD PARTY CLAIMS.
   9.1.   Customer acknowledges that Mentor Graphics
   has no control over the testing of Customer’s
   products, or the specific applications and use of
   Products. Mentor Graphics and its licensors shall
   not be liable for any claim or demand made
   against Customer by any third party, except to
   the extent such claim is covered under Section
   10.

   9.2.   In the event that a third party makes a
   claim against Mentor Graphics arising out of the
   use of Customer’s products, Mentor Graphics will
   give Customer prompt notice of such claim. At
   Customer’s option and expense, Customer may take
   sole control of the defense and any settlement of
   such claim. CUSTOMER WILL REIMBURSE AND HOLD
   HARMLESS MENTOR GRAPHICS FOR ANY LIABILITY,
   DAMAGES, SETTLEMENT AMOUNTS, COSTS AND EXPENSES,
   INCLUDING REASONABLE ATTORNEY’S FEES, INCURRED BY
   OR AWARDED AGAINST MENTOR GRAPHICS OR ITS
   LICENSORS IN CONNECTION WITH SUCH CLAIMS.

   9.3.   The provisions of this Section 9 shall
   survive any expiration or termination of this
   Agreement.

10.   INFRINGEMENT.
   10.1.   Mentor Graphics will defend or settle, at
   its option and expense, any action brought
   against Customer in the United States, Canada,
   Japan, or member state of the European Union
   which alleges that any standard, generally
   supported Product acquired by Customer hereunder
   infringes a patent or copyright or
   misappropriates a trade secret in such
   jurisdiction. Mentor Graphics will pay costs and
   damages finally awarded against Customer that are
   attributable to such action. Customer understands
   and agrees that as conditions to Mentor Graphics’
   obligations under this section Customer must: (a)
   notify Mentor Graphics promptly in writing of the
   action; (b) provide Mentor Graphics all
   reasonable information and assistance to settle
   or defend the action; and (c) grant Mentor
   Graphics sole authority and control of the
   defense or settlement of the action.

   10.2.   If a claim is made under Subsection 10.1
   Mentor Graphics may, at its option and expense:
   (a) replace or modify the Product so that it
   becomes noninfringing; (b) procure for Customer
   the right to continue using the Product; or (c)
   require the return of the Product and refund to
   Customer any purchase price or license fee paid,
   less a reasonable allowance for use.

   10.3.   Mentor Graphics has no liability to
   Customer if the action is based upon: (a) the
   combination of Software or hardware with any
   product not furnished by Mentor Graphics; (b) the
   modification of the Product other than by Mentor
   Graphics; (c) the use of other than a current
   unaltered release of Software; (d) the use of the
   Product as part of an infringing process; (e) a
   product that Customer makes, uses, or sells; (f)
   any Beta Code or Product provided at no charge;
   (g) any software provided by Mentor Graphics’
   licensors who do not provide such indemnification
   to Mentor Graphics’ customers; (h) OSS, except to
   the extent that the infringement is directly
   caused by Mentor Graphics’ modifications to such
   OSS; or (i) infringement by Customer that is
   deemed willful. In the case of (i), Customer
   shall reimburse Mentor Graphics for its
   reasonable attorney fees and other costs related
   to the action.

   10.4.   THIS SECTION 10 IS SUBJECT TO SECTION 8
   ABOVE AND STATES THE ENTIRE LIABILITY OF MENTOR
   GRAPHICS AND ITS LICENSORS, AND CUSTOMER’S SOLE
   AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY, FOR DEFENSE, SETTLEMENT AND
   DAMAGES, WITH RESPECT TO ANY ALLEGED PATENT OR
   COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT OR TRADE SECRET
   MISAPPROPRIATION BY ANY PRODUCT PROVIDED UNDER
   THIS AGREEMENT.

11.   TERMINATION AND EFFECT OF TERMINATION.
   11.1.   If a Software license was provided for
   limited term use, such license will automatically
   terminate at the end of the authorized term.
   Mentor Graphics may terminate this Agreement
   and/or any license granted under this Agreement
   immediately upon written notice if Customer: (a)
   exceeds the scope of the license or otherwise
   fails to comply with the licensing or
   confidentiality provisions of this Agreement, or
   (b) becomes insolvent, files a bankruptcy
   petition, institutes proceedings for liquidation
   or winding up or enters into an agreement to
   assign its assets for the benefit of creditors.
   For any other material breach of any provision of
   this Agreement, Mentor Graphics may terminate
   this Agreement and/or any license granted under
   this Agreement upon 30 days written notice if
   Customer fails to cure the breach within the 30
   day notice period. Termination of this Agreement
   or any license granted hereunder will not affect
   Customer’s obligation to pay for Products shipped
   or licenses granted prior to the termination,
   which amounts shall be payable immediately upon
   the date of termination.

   11.2.   Upon termination of this Agreement, the
   rights and obligations of the parties shall cease
   except as expressly set forth in this Agreement.
   Upon termination of this Agreement and/or any
   license granted under this Agreement, Customer
   shall ensure that all use of the affected
   Products ceases, and shall return hardware and
   either return to Mentor Graphics or destroy
   Software in Customer’s possession, including all
   copies and documentation, and certify in writing
   to Mentor Graphics within ten business days of
   the termination date that Customer no longer
   possesses any of the affected Products or copies
   of Software in any form.

12.   EXPORT. The Products provided hereunder are
subject to regulation by local laws and European
Union (“E.U.”) and United States (“U.S.”) government
agencies, which prohibit export, re-export or
diversion of certain products, information about the
products, and direct or indirect products thereof,
to certain countries and certain persons. Customer
agrees that it will not export or re-export Products
in any manner without first obtaining all necessary
approval from appropriate local, E.U. and U.S.
government agencies. If Customer wishes to disclose
any information to Mentor Graphics that is subject
to any E.U., U.S. or other applicable export
restrictions, including without limitation the U.S.
International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) or
special controls under the Export Administration
Regulations (EAR), Customer will notify Mentor
Graphics personnel, in advance of each instance of
disclosure, that such information is subject to such
export restrictions.

13.   U.S. GOVERNMENT LICENSE RIGHTS. Software was
developed entirely at private expense. The parties
agree that all Software is commercial computer
software within the meaning of the applicable
acquisition regulations. Accordingly, pursuant to
U.S. FAR 48 CFR 12.212 and DFAR 48 CFR 227.7202,
use, duplication and disclosure of the Software by
or for the U.S. government or a U.S. government
subcontractor is subject solely to the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement, which shall
supersede any conflicting terms or conditions in any
government order document, except for provisions
which are contrary to applicable mandatory federal
laws.

14.   THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARY. Mentor Graphics
Corporation, Mentor Graphics (Ireland) Limited,
Microsoft Corporation and other licensors may be
third party beneficiaries of this Agreement with the
right to enforce the obligations set forth herein.

15.   REVIEW OF LICENSE USAGE. Customer will monitor
the access to and use of Software. With prior
written notice and during Customer’s normal business
hours, Mentor Graphics may engage an internationally
recognized accounting firm to review Customer’s
software monitoring system and records deemed
relevant by the internationally recognized
accounting firm to confirm Customer’s compliance
with the terms of this Agreement or U.S. or other
local export laws. Such review may include FlexNet
(or successor product) report log files that
Customer shall capture and provide at Mentor
Graphics’ request. Customer shall make records
available in electronic format and shall fully
cooperate with data gathering to support the license
review. Mentor Graphics shall bear the expense of
any such review unless a material non-compliance is
revealed. Mentor Graphics shall treat as
confidential information all information gained as a
result of any request or review and shall only use
or disclose such information as required by law or
to enforce its rights under this Agreement. The
provisions of this Section 15 shall survive the
termination of this Agreement.

16.   CONTROLLING LAW, JURISDICTION AND DISPUTE
RESOLUTION. The owners of certain Mentor Graphics
intellectual property licensed under this Agreement
are located in Ireland and the U.S. To promote
consistency around the world, disputes shall be
resolved as follows: excluding conflict of laws
rules, this Agreement shall be governed by and
construed under the laws of the State of Oregon,
U.S., if Customer is located in North or South
America, and the laws of Ireland if Customer is
located outside of North or South America or Japan,
and the laws of Japan if Customer is located in
Japan. All disputes arising out of or in relation to
this Agreement shall be submitted to the exclusive
jurisdiction of the courts of Portland, Oregon when
the laws of Oregon apply, or Dublin, Ireland when
the laws of Ireland apply, or the Tokyo District
Court when the laws of Japan apply. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, all disputes in Asia (excluding
Japan) arising out of or in relation to this
Agreement shall be resolved by arbitration in
Singapore before a single arbitrator to be appointed
by the chairman of the Singapore International
Arbitration Centre (“SIAC”) to be conducted in the
English language, in accordance with the Arbitration
Rules of the SIAC in effect at the time of the
dispute, which rules are deemed to be incorporated
by reference in this section. Nothing in this
section shall restrict Mentor Graphics’ right to
bring an action (including for example a motion for
injunctive relief) against Customer in the
jurisdiction where Customer’s place of business is
located. The United Nations Convention on Contracts
for the International Sale of Goods does not apply
to this Agreement.

17.   SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this
Agreement is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be void, invalid, unenforceable or
illegal, such provision shall be severed from this
Agreement and the remaining provisions will remain
in full force and effect.

18.   MISCELLANEOUS. This Agreement contains the
parties’ entire understanding relating to its
subject matter and supersedes all prior or
contemporaneous agreements. Any translation of this
Agreement is provided to comply with local legal
requirements only. In the event of a dispute between
the English and any non-English versions, the
English version of this Agreement shall govern to
the extent not prohibited by local law in the
applicable jurisdiction. This Agreement may only be
modified in writing, signed by an authorized
representative of each party. Waiver of terms or
excuse of breach must be in writing and shall not
constitute subsequent consent, waiver or excuse.

Rev. 170330JP, Part No. 270942